# Bootcamp: from teacher to developer in London

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HNFcYnT5u_8

Bootcamp: from teacher to developer in London
Cecile: GitHub is the perfect … it's our LinkedIn, it's our portfolio, it's what recruiters want to see in tech so I think it's pretty important. Also, if you don't put it online, if you don't deploy it to the web, how can you brag to your friends and family?
Eddie: Exactly. No one's looking, right? High five me. That's awesome. That's so cool, see? Great minds.
Cecile: Exactly.

Speaker 3: So Le Wagon is a coding bootcamp, teach people who have no prior knowledge of coding at all, absolute beginners to become full stack web developers within nine weeks. We launched in Paris five years ago now, been in London for three. It's brilliant. We teach people just the hard skills, teach them how to work as a team, collaborate and build a core product.
Eddie: What is your name and what you do?
Cecile: So my name is Cecile and I'm a front end developer for a retail company.
Eddie: And what does that involve? What's your day to day look like?
Cecile: Mostly clean codes, trying to use new technologies to make things faster. It's the transition to react that my company wants, a very long process because we used to have a lot of legacy, and stuff that we can't touch as quickly as we would want to.
Eddie: How did you get to where you are now? What's your journey? So what's your background? What did you originally do at the beginning and how did you get to where you are now?
Cecile: I used to be a teacher. I was teaching French for foreigners, so I used to teach middle schoolers in the UK. And then I had another job in Tokyo, Japan, for a year, which was pretty awesome. I had learnt a little bit of programming online before I had seen it in an article. I was curious.
Cecile: I went on Codecademy and started a few classes and then it went away and it came back as an epiphany and I was like, "Why don't I try that?" and that's how I discovered about Le Wagon. And then I made a transition to become a web developer and it was a very, very good decision.
Eddie: You have got a big smile on your face so it's been a big positive. That's great.
Cecile: Yeah it's been blast, it's pretty amazing. Definitely compatible with pretty much any kind of lifestyle you want to be honest, because you have like the very stable life in the office or you could choose to be freelance or a contractor and you could work from home or you could like visit like a multitude of companies in the same year. See what you liked. See what you want, or just be on the road I guess because as long as you have a laptop, it doesn't matter the country, you can just work from wherever you are and that's pretty cool.
Eddie: That is very cool, Yes. And its like you read my mind. So on this journey, on this fabulous journey, what sort of challenges have you had?
Cecile: First I decided to do a bootcamp because I couldn't, I just couldn't go back to school for many years; go to university, have a computer science degree because you have a rent to pay, you don't, you can't do that anymore. So I thought maybe it's going to be very intense. Um, I'm jumping into the unknown, I'm moving country again 'cause I came to London specifically to study programming as well. Just go there, learn a lot. It is challenging but you manage to do it and then you're just so proud of yourself. There's this sense of satisfaction that you get when you can finally do it. You're like I finally made it. Everything is working, everything is looking good.
Cecile: Flying might have been the one challenge because I went for long, it was like a full time kind of situation for two, three weeks. I was also trying to learn as much as I could online to compliment my course. It was hard work that paid off. So I would say it was a worthy challenge, valuable lesson. If you give it your best shot, you're going to have results. It works. It does. See a person around me. Who's like "Hmm, you know, I like my job but I would maybe would like to change" and I'm like  "I have the perfect idea". I've been recommended myself. I had a friend who used to be a truck driver and then he took the Le Wagon class in Paris and it changed his life and now he's working for the French government.
Cecile: So what do you know? You can be one person having one job and then just switch it around and it's, it's fine. It's okay. If you have the right mindset, if you are open to new opportunities, if you are willing to take on the challenge, then you can, you can definitely do a lot more than what you think you are capable of.
Eddie: I liked that story. It's really good because, and also tech is not just about coding. If people that aren't interested in coding but interested in tech, they can still get involved. There are so many other skills needed.
Cecile: When I was applying I wanted to work for is stuff that were more artistic or education, maybe the medical field. You can choose anything you want and then it's a variety of job. A whole digital team, they will do things that are, are so diverse. I feel like everyone could find something of interest in there from the UI, UX team and it's more creative and artisty. You, you could be in the architecture, you could be in all the automation and testing.  And I had a few colleagues that went down the path of AI and machine learning and that's, that is awesome.
Eddie: What advice would you give to your younger self if you could speak to younger self? What would you say?
Cecile: Be Brave. There are going to be many, many times when we're thinking, what the hell am I doing? What the hell do I do next? And it really doesn't matter. It's just keep your eyes open and look at opportunities, Take them on. I would also say to stay confident. I would think I'm so confident until I have these kind of moments where I need to apply, why I to prove myself. And then you have this imposter syndrome creeping in and you're like "Am I good enough?" and yeah, because you will be, as long as you're willing to learn, as long as you're willing to put the effort will be fine. It will be fine. And I wish I could tell that to myself every morning just to remember: it's, it's okay to struggle. It's okay not to be sure that there's going to be something at the end of the road. So.
Eddie: it's the right attitude and putting in hard work and yeah.
Cecile: There's no such thing as you can't do it. It's you can't do it yet, its big difference.
Eddie: It's true. You can't do it yet, you can say that again, that's brilliant. But where do you see yourself in three years?
Cecile: I didn't expect three years ago to be where I am now, so I could be in a different country. I could be in a different kind of position. Hopefully by the time I will have learned so much and I will have a ton of side projects that I'm very proud of, yeah. I just want to take the time to explore everything that I can. Much that is offered to us as developers or as people working in tech in general. Even more women in tech would be nice.
Eddie: Yeah, get that balance and that parity would be really good.
Cecile: I was very lucky when I joined my team, there was already two other female developers, but I remember going to some events or some meetups and I had women saying, "I've been a developer for five years and I've always been the only woman on my team " and like why? It's exciting. It's you have this blank canvas and just make magic and it's awesome. Do it. I'm in a pretty good position where learning more, it's kind of encouraged by my company.
Eddie: Your side projects, do you do them as open source?
Cecile: Hosted on GitHub. So everything there is just free for people to take a look and maybe criticize and help me.
Eddie: Exactly. No, that's really good because a lot of people do it privately and say, oh, I only keep it on my laptop.
Cecile: What's the point? And then no one can point your mistake and help you get better? No.
Eddie: Exactly. And also when I think of people look you up on GitHub, maybe future job, they want to see your journey to see that you've improved.
Cecile: Exactly. GitHub it's the perfect, it's our Linkedin, it's our portfolio. It's what recruiters want to see in tech. So I think it's pretty Important. Also, if you don't put it online, if you don't deploy it to the web, how can you brag to your friends and family?
Eddie: Exactly. No one's looking right? High five me. That's awesome. That's so cool see? Great minds. I do all my learnings. Everything is open source on GitHub. And even if it turns out to be not that great, it's fine. I've put it out, I've showed what I've learned.
Cecile: At Least its there. It's legacy and it will make you laugh very hard and a furious where like, oh, was struggling with that? Yeah, that's what, as a front end developer, that's consistent. Stuff that I was really proud of a few months ago, I'm like, ah, I could have done it so much better. So yeah.
Eddie: That's one of my interview questions actually. When I interview people, I do, not like this interview, interviews as a tech interview. I do say, so if you look back at your code one month ago, few months ago, what would you think? And it's, it's great to hear this, I could done that better because that's what people want to hear. But you wouldn't believe some people do actually say, I look back two years ago. It's amazing. I'm thinking you've learned nothing in two years? I look back like one week and I go, who wrote this rubbish? Oh it's me.
Cecile: It's okay to be proud. But honestly, because you learn a lot, it's like the bootcamp never, never stop, keep having to learn a lot, constantly. You're bound to be like, ah, my design is a little bit weak and I know more about UI so I could have done things more neatly, more properly. Yeah. So I, I ended up looking back on it. It's pretty ugly in retrospect. I can do better now.
Eddie: But at the time it was beautiful and perfect?
Cecile: Because that's, I built it with what I knew at the time.
Eddie: Yeah, we do think that where we think, oh, this is great and you look back like a few weeks later, you don't like it.
Cecile: I feel like people don't want to be honest with it , just remember when you were drawing as a kid and look at your drawings now. Do you like them? Do you? It's cute. But you could do so much better.
Eddie: What would you recommend someone else getting into tech, maybe taking a boot camp, like Le Wagon. What would your advice be?
Cecile: I would say there were like two main fears for most of the people with me, when I was studying, or when I was being a teacher assistant. And that was first, to some of us, it's a lot of money to invest in, but you're investing in a field that will give you so much opportunities. It's worth it. You're investing in your future. And then we're also worried about how do I find a job when I have so little experience and well, just like the first time you had to find a job release, it's not more complicated than that. You have people willing to help you take the hands, go for it, just do it. You can.
Eddie: And so what does a nine week course look like? What happens at the beginning and the first week? Build up to Demo Day at the end, sounds really exciting. How do you kind of build up to that?
Speaker 3: First six weeks are all backend. So we have lectures, it's full time. So people come to this office every morning, we'll have a lecture in the morning and then work in teams to solve problems. And then at the end of the day have live code session, where everyone in the cohort of like 40 people will be able to code together. And make sure that they've understood the concept. So they'll learn Ruby on Rails for those first six weeks and then we'll move on to a project. So it takes about three weeks for everyone to learn html, CSS and JavaScript.
Eddie: So you pack in a lot of information in 9 weeks.
Speaker 3: A lot of information. It's a really steep learning curve.
Eddie: Do you help them find work afterwards or do you have like contacts or networking?
Speaker 3: So we have a community. We're very like active wih our community. So there's about 3000 at the moment of our alumni. And so also something that is really important to me is getting more women in tech. It's important for the whole company globally. So one of our main priorities is increasing our gender diversity and diversity generally. So the hatch hackathon that I mentioned, that was run by SheCanCode to encourage more, more young girls to get into tech and get into code.
